LIsa Anderson: Me.
Amber Romero: Hi.
LIsa Anderson: Amber. How are you doing,
Amber Romero: I'm okay, how are you
LIsa Anderson: Good. Are we just on audio today.
Amber Romero: Yeah, I want to see if it works better with just audio.
Amber Romero: That and it eats my phone battery and it's only 22%
LIsa Anderson: Mm hmm. Yeah, I know it's hard when you're out and about.
LIsa Anderson: Okay.
LIsa Anderson: So, um, how are you doing today.
Amber Romero: Okay, just woke up. Not too long ago.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, um, how did your probation meeting go last week.
Amber Romero: was fine. She
Amber Romero: She told me about
Amber Romero: This
Amber Romero: As eagles unlimited program which is probation, parole helping
Amber Romero: Helping to pay for your first month's rent. When you get into a place and
Amber Romero: She was we talked about that. And basically, I have two weeks left, I guess.
Amber Romero: You had to report them, but she still had
Amber Romero: I still have two more weeks until she can send off my finalization the board.
LIsa Anderson: Okay.
Amber Romero: So you should be
Amber Romero: Sure to send it off and then once the goods and they'll send me my completion people
LIsa Anderson: Okay, so two more weeks and then you'll be
LIsa Anderson: Completed
LIsa Anderson: Yeah, okay.
LIsa Anderson: Um,
LIsa Anderson: Okay, so she mentioned this program to you to you. Are you thinking that you'll want to try to utilize that for
Amber Romero: Well, I can only use it.
Amber Romero: When I'm on probation. So
Amber Romero: If I want their help. I have to
Amber Romero: Find something within the next two weeks or within the next week.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, so what are your thoughts on that.
Amber Romero: Or kind of hard to get anywhere without a rise and it's easier when you just call
Amber Romero: I call places, based on the number on the side of the building.
Rather than
Amber Romero: Try to do it online, because I don't get. I haven't been able to get very far.
Amber Romero: Online and then there's application paperwork and it'll have a source of income.
Amber Romero: We want that as well. So I don't know.
LIsa Anderson: So how
LIsa Anderson: You know how, how can you kind of think about working through that with the probation program would they pay the application fee.
Amber Romero: No, no.
Amber Romero: Question, um,
Amber Romero: I don't know.
Amber Romero: Did you see application for like 25 $35
LIsa Anderson: Yeah. Would you, we didn't have any funds for that at all.
Amber Romero: No, not for that.
LIsa Anderson: For the application fee.
LIsa Anderson: Yeah, I mean I would definitely encourage you to maybe talk with your probation officer, a little bit more, you know, try to take advantage of this. I mean,
LIsa Anderson: I know it's it's really quick deadline, but I know a lot of apartments are doing virtual virtual tours. So, you know, if you can even just call and you know you could look online and look at the apartment, you know, online and all the information online.
LIsa Anderson: Put your application and maybe you know utilize this resource while you still can.
Amber Romero: Yeah, everything that we do have about doing it online.
Amber Romero: As I'm like all the fraud or scum that go on with it.
LIsa Anderson: As far as an apartment complex
LIsa Anderson: Can you read
LIsa Anderson: Have you rented an apartment on your own before
Amber Romero: Yeah, but I usually go through independent owners, rather than
Amber Romero: Complex.
LIsa Anderson: I see. Okay.
LIsa Anderson: And that is where you are going to run into possibly more, um, you know, fraud, you know, definitely don't want to send money to anybody.
LIsa Anderson: You know about having a signed lease or something like that. Um, do you have that like a felony on your record that you mentioned before.
LIsa Anderson: Yeah okay so that being kind of a barrier.
LIsa Anderson: Getting
Amber Romero: Yeah, well I'm gonna have an eviction when I was 18 to 35 now some they for some reason they still hold that against me and then
Amber Romero: Yeah, with my felonies of
Amber Romero: Mercury conspiracy robbery.
Amber Romero: Drugs.
Amber Romero: Well, I mean, it's
LIsa Anderson: Yeah.
Amber Romero: I'm gonna, I haven't tried rather complex in a while. It's always been more independent because because of that issue.
Okay.
LIsa Anderson: You know and i i would imagine your probation officer might have a list of either landlords or
LIsa Anderson: They work with
LIsa Anderson: The
LIsa Anderson: With the convicted Melanie
LIsa Anderson: Probation Officer a call and see, see if they have that list and
LIsa Anderson: Start
LIsa Anderson: Making some phone calls.
LIsa Anderson: You know, one of the one of the priorities for you. Just getting your face and
LIsa Anderson: You know, it's time for you to know about this resource until just now, but
LIsa Anderson: You might not want to let that
LIsa Anderson: Slip you bye
Amber Romero: Seeing the last time I talked to my probation officer. She said she was going to try to get ahold of that list that you're talking about.
Amber Romero: She was going to email the supervisor for different department because we're she's a more. I want to go on to several places.
Amber Romero: I never heard from her poetry.
Amber Romero: Or something.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, so she didn't say she she
Amber Romero: Yeah.
LIsa Anderson: Okay. All right. Good. I'm in it. Are you still staying with your friend.
Yeah.
LIsa Anderson: It is that that's still a good situation for you.
LIsa Anderson: All right, good. Um, well, I just wanted to take a look amor real quick here at any of your
LIsa Anderson: surveys that you filled out if they have you fill those out today in the virtual on it.
No.
LIsa Anderson: Okay.
Amber Romero: That's fair. So for like last last week for for before group one of them had told me something about having a Philip like a health assessment or something like that. And if she said that was every week and i i don't i don't know which one that is. My think she had sent it to me, but
LIsa Anderson: I don't know. Um, okay, well maybe check your check your email for that.
LIsa Anderson: Yeah, because I'm looking at the
LIsa Anderson: Anxiety scoring and that I don't have a recent one for and it looks like they didn't give you the depression one either.
LIsa Anderson: And then
Amber Romero: Which let me look at my email.
Okay.
LIsa Anderson: And then I'm just looking at patient you scores over time. Okay, so you're still are using some sleep, sleep medications.
LIsa Anderson: No, okay, diet.
Amber Romero: Am I on a diet.
LIsa Anderson: Um, or maybe marijuana
LIsa Anderson: Okay, okay. So you had a little bit of pot and just still the
LIsa Anderson: Smoking cigarettes.
Amber Romero: Yeah.
Okay.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, sorry. Sometimes they color code those. I'm like, Is that supposed to be purple or dark pink.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, yeah, this was the week of May 3 asked you about when you feel that stuff out about
LIsa Anderson: A risk factors, just physical health, about the same.
LIsa Anderson: Family, friends, that the same anxiety, anger, okay.
LIsa Anderson: And how, how would you rate that amor as far as this past week as far as your, your anxiety level.
Amber Romero: Um,
Amber Romero: Let's hold on just a sec.
Amber Romero: So I'm all the way back in my may 11
Amber Romero: Emails, and I don't
Amber Romero: I don't have anything
LIsa Anderson: Okay.
Amber Romero: I'm good.
LIsa Anderson: Yeah, either. I'm not sure. Maybe, maybe later to we can check it. I don't know if it's gone to your junk.
LIsa Anderson: So sometimes that that happens. But, um, okay, well yeah, just kind of wanted to check in on that.
LIsa Anderson: And kind of looking at your treatment plan.
LIsa Anderson: So would you say that, you know, definitely. Now that you're you're close to completing probation. That's pretty much going to be completed when the judge signs off of it.
LIsa Anderson: So would you say as far as employment where kind of where would you say you are on that so pending.
Amber Romero: Go. Honestly, I haven't, I haven't done anything
LIsa Anderson: Okay. All right, so we'll keep that kind of still in progress. It's still a work in progress.
LIsa Anderson: Okay. And then as far as housing.
LIsa Anderson: Once you hear back from your probation officer with that list. Do you feel like you'd be up to contacting some of those landlords
Amber Romero: Yeah, okay.
LIsa Anderson: All right, good. Um, what about sleep. I know you mentioned you just woke up this afternoon. So what's your
LIsa Anderson: Schedule been like
Um,
Amber Romero: Well, like
Amber Romero: I slept last night.
Amber Romero: No, I passed out. I didn't actually like go to bed. I like passed out, who was sitting on my friends bed and
Amber Romero: I like what was always watching me and her were watching Orange is the New Black. And I just like
Amber Romero: On even remember falling asleep.
Amber Romero: The night before I didn't sleep.
Amber Romero: The night before I slept for about four hours. That was a really good sleep. I went to sleep on that one.
Amber Romero: Oh, remember the night before. Oh.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, so yeah, you're still kind of having that where you will be so exhausted that you know you're watching a show and kind of just pass out.
LIsa Anderson: Which would you say your sleep schedule, have you have you been able to try
LIsa Anderson: Like going to bed and waking up at the same time every day.
Amber Romero: Um no I haven't tried just because I don't have the option really available know with my friends not home after when she gets home or
Amber Romero: You know if
Amber Romero: She has people over it kind of just can't be all sleeping, you know,
LIsa Anderson: Okay.
Amber Romero: Um, she doesn't really have people over too much.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, yeah, we, we talked about that a little bit last time I'm
LIsa Anderson: Not
LIsa Anderson: Are you not able to like really be there when your friends.
Amber Romero: Yeah, but I don't really want to be
LIsa Anderson: How, how are you been spending your days lately. What kind of things have you been doing just dated
Amber Romero: All these past couple days it's been just a little bit different because
Amber Romero: It went out of town. You want to see my friends in real dorsal
Amber Romero: But
Amber Romero: My brother ended up taking me and
Amber Romero: His, His car broke down in the middle of the night in the middle of basically nowhere.
Amber Romero: So I spent the past couple days working on
Amber Romero: towing the Jeep from over there. Back to Albuquerque.
Amber Romero: And now from Albuquerque. We got to figure out how to what to do to get it back to pickle. So let me just spend a little bit different this past week.
LIsa Anderson: Wow. Yeah, that sounds like it's been
LIsa Anderson: A little bit stressful.
Yeah.
Amber Romero: Cell phone service in the middle of the mountain. Yes. Yeah. I was
Amber Romero: It was kind of crazy. Um,
Amber Romero: One thing I have one of my friends have pointed out to me was that
Amber Romero: I'm always cold.
Amber Romero: And it'd be like 100 degrees outside, and I'm freezing
Amber Romero: And you said that's not like normal.
LIsa Anderson: Is this new for you or have you sort of always been
Amber Romero: Um,
Amber Romero: I would say it's new within
The past.
Amber Romero: Couple months but I was thinking maybe it was cold because of wintertime. But now that it's summer I mean
Amber Romero: I'm still like crazy. Um,
LIsa Anderson: Do you feel cold. You ever feel like really cold in your hands.
LIsa Anderson: Or all over
Amber Romero: Everywhere.
Amber Romero: Right everywhere cold all the time.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, um, you know, in my experience working with people who have
LIsa Anderson: Who have smoked cigarettes for a long time.
LIsa Anderson: So so tobacco use and cigarette use can cause poor circulation. So if, if your circulations poor you know that can affect your
LIsa Anderson: You know, your ability of like of your blood circulating kind of regulating your temperature
LIsa Anderson: But you also might, you know, consider talking with
LIsa Anderson: You know,
LIsa Anderson: primary care doctor and we check checked.
Amber Romero: You know, I've worked with a lot of ways to
LIsa Anderson: Who die word can be like a
LIsa Anderson: Kind of just an underlying thing that can cause a lot of
LIsa Anderson: No sleep problems like you've mentioned or, you know, feeling cold. That's a symptom of a little high. Right. You know, might not be a bad idea, and trying to just get in with your, your primary care doctor and maybe they just want some blood work and kind of check everything out.
Amber Romero: Because not too long ago, I am
Amber Romero: Check.
Amber Romero: It says good move your body, your soul, but
Amber Romero: It was it was okay. It wasn't anything
Amber Romero: Anything wrong with it.
LIsa Anderson: Yeah, I mean, you can always you know just mentioned it to your doctor.
LIsa Anderson: next appointment and see what they
Think
Amber Romero: Yeah, I'm not really
Amber Romero: Really go to the doctor too much, um,
Amber Romero: I don't really care about too much, you know,
LIsa Anderson: So we talked about, um, how have you been doing as far as like eating regularly. Have you been able to get out for walks. How's that
Amber Romero: Yeah, that's fine. Okay. I actually went for a walk, yesterday, and I've been. I've been walking outside
Amber Romero: I feel like I've been eating a lot
Amber Romero: More than usual.
LIsa Anderson: Do you feel like that's been like stress related or
Amber Romero: Not really.
Amber Romero: Just because everything looks. Looks really good.
LIsa Anderson: Yeah, that happens.
Amber Romero: I had this
Amber Romero: Is really good. It was a
Amber Romero: It was a road cheesecake cone.
Amber Romero: Yeah, that was really good. That was from Albertsons
From the
Amber Romero: bakery.
LIsa Anderson: Oh wow, that's just me, me.
LIsa Anderson: About your trip to Rio. So other than the car breaking down
LIsa Anderson: Isn't that was to visit a friend.
Amber Romero: Yeah. What I'm one of my friends that I've been talking to
Amber Romero: Over the last couple weeks.
Amber Romero: He works at a town a lot and
Amber Romero: A versus everything a lot of time with this person.
Amber Romero: And when he wants you read. Also, I had time was like, man, I gotta wait. You know, I have to wait till next week, hang out with you because He'll. He'll stay out there to fill the jobs done he was working on a college and
Amber Romero: He's like, well, you can come if you want and toes like yeah I will watch and he and I just ended up going. So that's how that came from. It wasn't fun. It was just kind of like some other than where you spontaneous you
LIsa Anderson: Know,
Amber Romero: Well, yeah, it was those nice I feel pretty out there. I thought it was
Amber Romero: The thought it'd be a lot smaller than what it is, but real beautiful
LIsa Anderson: So that was good for you to kind of have a little bit of a change of environment and get out to the mountains and
LIsa Anderson: Yeah, friend. Okay.
Amber Romero: Always nice just the
Amber Romero: The whole breaking down being really sucking in. Um, so that was the middle of the night.
Amber Romero: We had
Amber Romero: Some lady had stopped and we had asked her if she can help us, and she ended up calling a tow truck. So a tow truck guy showed up and then state police officer had showed up so they they knew what was going on. Apparently the tow truck is the only one in town. So, you know, he's
Amber Romero: He wasn't hard to find. But the next day when we were on our way to go get the truck.
Amber Romero: It had gotten told
Amber Romero: And
Amber Romero: Guess my brother has a different license plate on it.
Amber Romero: So they told it for
Amber Romero: Fictitious
Amber Romero: Registration
LIsa Anderson: Oh,
Amber Romero: Yeah, better pay 300 bucks to get it out. They only had it for 15 minutes to
Amber Romero: Oh, yeah. So that really sucks but
Amber Romero: You know,
Amber Romero: It is what it is, I guess.
LIsa Anderson: And your brothers. He lives in Albuquerque.
Amber Romero: Know he lives in
LIsa Anderson: Okay.
LIsa Anderson: So you're using your dad lives in Arizona.
Amber Romero: My dad lives in California.
LIsa Anderson: California, I'm sorry, California. Okay. Um, and I know you had kind of been talking with him. And now you know maybe trying to buy a vehicle has that. Have you guys
Amber Romero: Have me on. He gave me his, his BMW, um,
Amber Romero: But then the coronavirus everything started with that. So there was like a quarantine going on. So he said that I wouldn't be able to go get it.
Amber Romero: Until
Amber Romero: Until after that's over.
Amber Romero: But I didn't know we're supposed to like our state supposed to reopen on Friday. Right.
LIsa Anderson: I, I believe, on Saturday. Yes, some of the restrictions are going to be lifted as far as
LIsa Anderson: I think though.
LIsa Anderson: As do you mean as far as like traveling to California.
Amber Romero: I'm just like, overall, in general, I, I'm not sure.
Amber Romero: I haven't been
Amber Romero: Keeping up with it.
LIsa Anderson: Yeah, I think, I think, you know, here in New Mexico, some of the restrictions are going to be lifted, like maybe some more.
LIsa Anderson: Small businesses might be opening up
LIsa Anderson: As far as out of state travel. I mean, I think, I don't. As far as I know, I don't think there's any restrictions on out of state travel, but I don't know if California is allowing people to travel in from other states.
LIsa Anderson: Is that, is that what you're asking if you could go to Hell, yeah.
Amber Romero: Yeah, so like I'm like my dad will know for sure because overall the decisions is his if I can go or not.
LIsa Anderson: Right.
Amber Romero: Yeah.
LIsa Anderson: Yeah yeah I know that's that's hard because you mentioned last time that it sort of been a source of frustration to you where you're trying to me to be make things happen and and get the ball rolling on things, but it's hardly you're relying on other people.
Amber Romero: Mm hmm.
LIsa Anderson: And I'm sure you know, just right, getting to a job interview or going to an apartment to, you know, pay the deposit or any of those things are really challenging when you don't have
LIsa Anderson: You know your own transportation so
Yeah.
LIsa Anderson: Do you use the bus Gemma bus pass
Amber Romero: Um no I don't use the bus. I'm going to have before.
Amber Romero: No, I don't have a bus pass
Amber Romero: The places where I hang out.
Amber Romero: They don't. It doesn't seem like there's
Amber Romero: Like a bus that runs right there, but
Amber Romero: I usually try to find the right if I have to go somewhere, what
Amber Romero: You don't have to go anywhere. No.
LIsa Anderson: Yeah yeah it's challenging
LIsa Anderson: Definitely you know keep working, employment and
LIsa Anderson: Place, because I know those are, are some of the big things that you know we've talked about as far as like getting your, your stability. But yeah, I know not having transportation would be a big, big part of that.
Amber Romero: You know,
LIsa Anderson: Okay, I'm
LIsa Anderson: Okay, so, I mean, I think those things are still kind of then just just on hold a bit. Um, but yeah, other than breaking down. I'm glad that you were able to, you know, connect with a friend and we had oh so other than that ordeal about the car getting towed
LIsa Anderson: In relationship wise with with everybody else, things are going. Okay.
Amber Romero: No. Okay, good. I
Amber Romero: Mean
Amber Romero: I'm
Amber Romero: My main my Mei Mei Baby Daddy and I aren't
Amber Romero: I don't know.
Amber Romero: I don't
Amber Romero: Know how to what to think about that or how to feel about that.
Amber Romero: Makes me
Amber Romero: Feel like
Amber Romero: It was supposed to be different than what different, but it doesn't act different
Amber Romero: Or maybe he wants me to act different, I don't know, I just kind of a didn't leave enough alone, like I haven't really been talking to him.
Amber Romero: He hasn't really been talking to me.
LIsa Anderson: Okay. Yeah. You mentioned that last time that when you guys were younger, you may be kind of just didn't stand up for yourself as much you're going to assert yourself. And now when you do assert yourself. He's, he's not used to that or
LIsa Anderson: Yeah, doesn't. OK, I see you guys just kind of taking a break from communication right now.
Amber Romero: Kinda like
Amber Romero: Call them when we were driving back from weird also and we told them, like, hey, my brother needs help with with the chief and
Amber Romero: You say column. When I get closer Albuquerque. So that way you can, you know, meet up with the end. So what you do to fix it and
Amber Romero: You never answer the phone.
Amber Romero: Or online.
Amber Romero: He's been doing that a lot lately. So the next two days for the next two days afterwards. I didn't answer the phone.
Amber Romero: He was already getting upset and I thought the one I know tells
Amber Romero: You magically thought he said, oh, I fell asleep, no lawyer so magically you fall asleep. Every time or something happens and just it's been pissing me off. So I just been kind of staying away from it.
LIsa Anderson: Yeah, I mean, if you know that sometimes he's a source of stress for you or you know it's it's a source of conflict.
LIsa Anderson: So yeah, if you're not engaging in that right now.
LIsa Anderson: Right.
Hey,
LIsa Anderson: You know, and one of the things we talked about last time is surrounding yourself with people who are healthy for you.
LIsa Anderson: Know people who are healthy, emotionally, physically, you know, who are safe people for you who are people who are clean.
LIsa Anderson: And so yeah, I think taking those steps to kind of protect yourself emotionally is really great day, you just recognize that that you know just this week, or just right now if there's a lot of conflict going on, kind of just taking a step back.
Amber Romero: Yeah.
LIsa Anderson: Mmm yeah had any like cravings or anything like that to us.
Amber Romero: I'm young. Right. I do.
LIsa Anderson: How, how often would you say in the past week. You've had cravings.
Amber Romero: Every day.
Every day.
LIsa Anderson: Is it
LIsa Anderson: Today. Does it kind of come and go.
Amber Romero: It comes and goes. When it depends on what I'm doing.
Amber Romero: Okay, I'm super busy my mindset preoccupied so
Amber Romero: It's like when I when I get bored or if I realized like, I try to extend up and my body's hurting you know there's some days I feel old.
LIsa Anderson: So definitely that the pain.
LIsa Anderson: Definitely. If you feel like you're in physical pain that brings up those thoughts about using
LIsa Anderson: And then just if you're bored. If you start thinking about it, that kind of brings up some of that craving.
LIsa Anderson: Yeah, okay, what, what have you been doing to stay busy or when you when you have that craving like if you're just kind of hanging out at your board and you have that craving. What do you, what do you do
Amber Romero: A couple times have actually tried to
Amber Romero: Like feed into it, but it wasn't very successful to kind of find anything.
Amber Romero: Other times it just
Amber Romero: Other times, I've just
Amber Romero: Been up and
Amber Romero: Do
Amber Romero: Like sometimes, it kind of hurts you know to
Amber Romero: Fill that craving like my arm hurts.
Amber Romero: My arms been going like tingling lately.
Amber Romero: Like if it fell asleep.
LIsa Anderson: Yeah, I mean, you know, you hear about kind of that mind body connection is is huge, you know, when we've talked about, you know, just the time that it takes for your brain to kind of reset or itself to kind of rewire itself to regrow like those connections that were damaged even
LIsa Anderson: So tell me about that. Amber when you when you have those cravings. See, we're just kind of bored, he you know
LIsa Anderson: Which yeah you know you start thinking things your mind kind of goes down that rabbit hole. So tell me about what was that like for you being like in search of drugs and then not being able to get it and how did you feel about that.
Amber Romero: I don't know.
Amber Romero: Frustrated.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, so you were, you were wanting to use and I'm like what calling people calling people you knew
LIsa Anderson: That you thought yeah okay
LIsa Anderson: And then when when you couldn't find anything you felt frustrated
Amber Romero: Yeah, exactly.
LIsa Anderson: So then, so then what did you do, you couldn't get drugs, you still have the craving you felt frustrated that you couldn't find anything.
LIsa Anderson: Than one
Amber Romero: And nothing
Amber Romero: Nothing at all.
Amber Romero: Just kind of let it go, you know,
LIsa Anderson: Just let it go.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, yeah. Um, and then tell me about the times where you you felt board you felt
LIsa Anderson: You know, restless, or you had the cravings and were you dinner pursuit of trying to get drugs. Tell me, tell me, like,
Amber Romero: I don't know. I don't really think about stuff like that.
LIsa Anderson: So,
LIsa Anderson: Okay, so if you were, you were born, you were having a craving that you didn't pick up the phone and call somebody and try to get drugs like what did you do instead
Amber Romero: Nothing else out there, depending on who I was with or that just
Amber Romero: Kind of involved myself in the surroundings pain.
LIsa Anderson: Okay, so you you involve yourself in the surroundings of the people you are with
LIsa Anderson: Yeah okay so is is being with supportive people
LIsa Anderson: A way that you can kind of overcome that craving.
Amber Romero: I don't know. It depends on if I'm with somebody or not. I mean, I feel maybe it would be, but
Amber Romero: It doesn't necessarily mean that those people would be available.
LIsa Anderson: Right. So what I want you to try to get to think about amorous, you know, you're going to have cravings and that's normal.
LIsa Anderson: But to try to identify what you can do instead of seeking out drugs. Right.
LIsa Anderson: So doing that work.
LIsa Anderson: You know, and you had you've had times where you have tried to seek out drugs, but you've also had some success, where you didn't. So I want to try to find and help you recognize like what you did that worked for you.
LIsa Anderson: Like what you did.
LIsa Anderson: To not try to do drugs. Does that make sense.
LIsa Anderson: Yeah. And so, because that's, that's huge, you know, you know, you kind of had a slip up where you might have used, but you had other times where you didn't
LIsa Anderson: And that's a huge success. So I want you to, you know, kind of give yourself some credit for that and just think about so so if people are around you that are helpful to you. You can engage with them. Right.
LIsa Anderson: Yeah, if they're around. Okay, so if you have a craving and say you're by yourself. Um, what, what are some things you think you could do instead of calling the dealer.
Amber Romero: No, no.
LIsa Anderson: Have you ever had a craving where you were, by yourself and you didn't try to get drugs.
Amber Romero: I'm usually not by myself.
LIsa Anderson: Usually not by yourself.
LIsa Anderson: So usually you're with someone and being with other people.
LIsa Anderson: Yeah, okay. So say you're by yourself.
LIsa Anderson: You have a craving. Can you call someone a supportive person.
Amber Romero: And that may work.
LIsa Anderson: Okay. Um, so are like can you think about
LIsa Anderson: How would it be for you to cut off contact with people that you get drugs from or that you used to use with
Amber Romero: Well, like that's the thing I i
Couldn't
Amber Romero: I couldn't find them because I did cut them off like cut off my contract.
Amber Romero: Got a little bit hard, you know,
LIsa Anderson: Okay, so that was a good thing, right, I mean, I know you, you said you felt frustrated that you couldn't reach them.
LIsa Anderson: Looking back on it now. Like, how do you feel that you didn't use
Amber Romero: To write about it, you know, which is a good thing.
LIsa Anderson: Yeah yeah you you should feel good about it. It is a good thing.
LIsa Anderson: I mean,
LIsa Anderson: I think at some point, thinking about everything. You have to gain from continuing to be clean.
LIsa Anderson: And weigh that against like what's at stake, you know that you would lose if you used again.
LIsa Anderson: So maybe just, you know, to, how would you way that in your mind like what would be some of the cons of using drugs again.
Amber Romero: No, definitely go backwards.
LIsa Anderson: Right, so all the progress you've made thus far, it would it would really put you back at square one.
LIsa Anderson: Yeah, hey,
LIsa Anderson: Yeah. What else
Amber Romero: Know what my overall health or being fair
LIsa Anderson: Yeah, so your overall health. Um, you know there's there's definitely health risks to, you know, intravenous drug use.
LIsa Anderson: You know, that's the tune of pretty high risk for a lot of you know diseases and things like that, but
LIsa Anderson: You know, then possibly going into withdrawal again right if you used, and then you are able, you know, then you tried to get clean again.
LIsa Anderson: Yeah, possibly being sick.
LIsa Anderson: So the other thing I'll share with you to me. And I don't know if you've
LIsa Anderson: If you guys have gone over the same group, but sometimes people who relapse on heroin. If you go back to the same dose that you were using previously you can overdose.
LIsa Anderson: Huh. Oh, it can be just really dangerous. You know, possibly have a fatal overdose.
LIsa Anderson: So I mean that's that's a pretty big thing, right.
LIsa Anderson: You know, you know, possibly dying if used again.
Amber Romero: Mm hmm. Definitely.
LIsa Anderson: So, um, maybe, Emery. If you can make a list for me about what things you can do when you have those
LIsa Anderson: Cravings because I really want you to be able to think about
LIsa Anderson: You know, you might not always be around people, you might not always be able to call someone your phone might be dead, you know,
LIsa Anderson: And you have a craving or you have a stressful situation that comes up that makes you think that you want to use. And so I really
LIsa Anderson: Because you know things come up right there's not going to always be people around, or there's not going to always be there's going to be moments of boredom.
LIsa Anderson: And so I want you to be able to have the skills and the tools to be able to cope with those things.
LIsa Anderson: Mm hmm. Does that make sense.
LIsa Anderson: Yeah, so, you know, think about what what works for you, you know, cuz what works for me or what's worked for other people might not work for you.
LIsa Anderson: But, you know, just some ideas. You've, you've mentioned social distractions, which I think is great. And that seems like it works well for you.
LIsa Anderson: You know, talking to somebody on the phone, a supportive person.
LIsa Anderson: So,
LIsa Anderson: So let's just, you know, get creative. Just, you know, it could be anything but if Fordham is a trigger for you that just brings up those, you know, the board sitting around, you're not doing anything.
LIsa Anderson: To think about one maybe what you can do to prevent that boredom and then to if you are bored or you're alone and you have a craving, what you can do to distract yourself, even if it's temporary
LIsa Anderson: Okay, so maybe between now and next week. If you can just kind of jot down, you know, just maybe two or three things that you can do if you have a craving to distract yourself.
LIsa Anderson: It's if there's no one else around you.
LIsa Anderson: Kind of have a plan in place, right.
LIsa Anderson: Mm hmm. It's right those cravings come and go.
LIsa Anderson: You know, even, even you said if you're having them every day but but you haven't used so
LIsa Anderson: You know, that's awesome that you've, you've been able to work through that somehow. And I know it's kind of maybe on the spot for me to just ask you right here. So,
LIsa Anderson: Think about it in and maybe just take some time to kind of reflect on it, maybe have that list handy. We'll review it next week together and then that way when you like, do you have a craving. Again, you can look at your list and be like, Okay, I can go for a walk. I can
LIsa Anderson: Do some yoga or, you know, watch TV, whatever it is for you that is maybe a distraction.
Amber Romero: Okay.
LIsa Anderson: Okay. And, and we'll, we'll keep building on that.
LIsa Anderson: As yes it's totally normal to have those cravings.
LIsa Anderson: But I don't want you to be in that
LIsa Anderson: Place where we're that risk to relapse.
LIsa Anderson: That makes sense.
Yeah.
LIsa Anderson: And, you know, and that's kind of what what this how this works, you know, to just
LIsa Anderson: How you staying stable on your medication.
LIsa Anderson: You know, to have you also kind of doing the work. And as far as therapy to gain those skills to to kind of retrain your brain to think about what can you do instead of using drugs.
LIsa Anderson: To kind of dig a little bit deeper into maybe why you are using
LIsa Anderson: And those sorts of things.
LIsa Anderson: And just give you some some tools, you know, some tools to draw from
Amber Romero: Okay.
LIsa Anderson: Okay. Um, and then yeah, definitely let me know how your how your housing search goes
LIsa Anderson: You know, if you're able to find something, you know, within the next week, maybe your, your probation officer might be willing to kind of extend some of that help
LIsa Anderson: You can give you like a little bit of an extension on that first month
LIsa Anderson: You know, because that would be great to have that resource. So maybe if you find something quick, maybe they can still
LIsa Anderson: Help you with that resource.
Amber Romero: Okay.
LIsa Anderson: Okay.
LIsa Anderson: All right, Amber, we'll go ahead and wrap up for today. Any other questions or concerns.
LIsa Anderson: No address for today. Okay.
LIsa Anderson: All right, and you don't have any other appointments coming up.
LIsa Anderson: No vacation or anything. Okay. All right. Good. Well, we'll stick with same day and time we'll plan for next Thursday.
LIsa Anderson: May 21 at one o'clock again.
Amber Romero: Okay.
Amber Romero: Okay, that'll work.
LIsa Anderson: Alright, sounds good to me. Will you have a good week I'll talk to you soon.
Amber Romero: Okay, you too. Bye bye.
Bye.